.TH aln2pattern 1  "v2; Apr 29, 2007" 
.SH NAME

aln2pattern - Generate search patterns for fragrep from annotated
mutliple sequence alignment

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aln2pattern [\-m] <alignment file>

.SH DESCRIPTION

aln2pattern reads ClustalW formatted alignment files. One sequence in
the alignment is required to be named FRAGREP, consisting of gap ('-')
and '*' entries only. Subsequent columns marked by '*' are interpreted
as one conserved fragment, and lower and upper bounds for the gap
length in between those fragments are determined for the search
pattern. Blocks marked as conserved should contain few deletions only
(not more than 1 del per 5 nucleotides in each of the sequences, as a
rule of thumb).

The search pattern generated is the least restricted pattern that
produces a match for each of the sequences given in the alignment.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-m create position weight matrix based patterns (recommended)

.SH OUTPUT

Output is written to stdout and can be piped into a pattern
file. Furthermore, a graphical representation of the search pattern is
written into the file aln2pattern.eps; aln2pattern.anchor contains the
anchor points of the conserved blocks (which can be used by programs
such as dialign), ans aln2pattern.mfa contains the fasta formatted
sequences contained in the multiple seuqence alignment.

In a typical workflow, the pattern file will be manually edited,
e.g. in order to allow more fault tolerance by higher deletion or
match thresholds, or more relaxed distance constraints between the
fragments. Any valid search pattern can be visualized using the
pattern2eps tool, which takes the pattern file as its only input
parameter.

.SH EXAMPLE ALIGNMENT FILE

CLUSTAL


Typh_n_terc     --------CTCGCTGTTTT-CTCAG--AGGGC-TCCATCTCTGTCCC------
Chin_b_terc     --------CGCGCTGTTTTTCTC---AAAAGCCCC-ATCTCTGTCCG------
Dasy_s_terc     --GGAGCCCTCGCTGTTTTCTTTGGCGA-----CTTGTCTCTGTT--------
Rhin_b_terc     CGGGAGCCCTCGCTGTTTTCTTTG----AAGG-CTTGT-TCTGTC--------
Rhiz_p_terc     ---GAAACCTCGCTGTTTTCTT-GAGGCAAGGCCCCAGCTCTGTCCCGGGTGG
FRAGREP         ----------************--------------*********--------

.PP


.SH SEE ALSO

fragrep, pattern2eps

.SH AUTHORS
Axel Mosig, CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Biology,
Shanghai, China

Peter F. Stadler, Katrin Sameith, Bioinformatics Group,
University of Leipzig, Germany. 

Email:axel (at) picb.ac.cn

.SH URL
www.bioinf.uni-leipzig.de/Software/fragrep

